Welcome to Movie Shortens.
Follow us today to a movie titled: Last Action
Hero.
Be aware, there are spoilers!
The movie begins with a large number of police
officers tending to a hostage situation in
Los Angeles.
Plain clothed officer Jack Slater arrives
in his open topped car and strides purposefully
towards the building, ignoring the instructions
of Lieutenant Dekker and the mayor, who plead
with him to stop.
Pushing various cops aside with force, Slater
makes his entrance.
Now on the top of the building, there are
many children huddling together in fear, while
the protagonist, The Ripper, holds an axe
to the neck of one - Slater’s son, Andy.
Slater is told to throw down all the weapons
he is carrying.
He follows the command for the kids’ safety.
However, he has kept a grenade to hand, which
he throws onto the ground at the feet of The
Ripper and his son.
As The Ripper laughs at this, Andy picks it
up, presses a button to reveal a hidden blade
and stabs his assailant with it.
In the ensuing melee, Slater is able to shoot
the aggressor…
Before we can make out what has happened,
we arrive in a cinema in New York in which
Danny Madigan is watching this clearly out-of-focus
movie.
Danny gives up on the film and heads out of
the cinema to complain, eventually to the
owner and projectionist, his friend Nick.
In the conversation that follows, Nick invites
Danny - who should have been at school - to
come back at midnight for a preview of Jack
Slater IV.
When Danny gets home, his worried and recently
widowed mother, Irene, is waiting for him.
Despite her annoyance at him skipping school,
she gives him a big hug and tells him to lock
the door while she goes out.
Later at night, a burglar is able to get in
though, but is frustrated to find the family
have little worth stealing.
During the break-in, he handcuffs Danny in
the bathroom.
As the burglar makes his exit, he throws the
key for the cuffs into the toilet bowl, instructing
Danny to “go fishing”.
Having reported the incident to the police,
Danny is aware the movie preview is scheduled
to begin soon.
In a hurry, he makes his way back to the theatre
where Nick lets him in, but insists he needs
a ticket for the film.
As a kind gesture, Nick hands Danny a golden
ticket once given to him by his hero, the
magician Harry Houdini, who reveals to have
himself received it from a mystical man in
India.
Nick tears the ticket, reminds Danny to keep
the stub and the young movie fan enters the
theatre, armed with a bucket of popcorn ready
to enjoy the film.
In the opening sequences of the movie, an
Italian mob boss and his British henchman
Benedict are interrogating Frank, Jack Slater’s
second cousin, by the pool of a stunning villa
overlooking the ocean.
The scene cuts to a smaller house, which two
police officers are attempting to enter in
an apparent drug bust.
Before they can do so, Slater arrives and
gains entry himself to find his second cousin
gagged and bound in the hall.
With his last words, Frank informs Slater
that the two big mafia families plan to join
forces.
He spots a note addressed to him amid the
ropes binding Frank and realizes a bomb is
about to go off.
Back in the cinema, Danny jokes Slater can
never be killed, our hero makes it out of
the house just in time.
In the next sequence, a group of 4 of Vivaldi’s
mafiosos are pursuing Slater in a red pickup
truck, firing from the back of it with automatic
weapons.
It is at this point that the powers of the
ticket are revealed as it transports some
dynamite from the film into the theatre.
Danny attempts to suppress them using the
popcorn - and as very soon after, Danny enters
the movie.
He awakens in the back of Slater’s car,
fleeing from the gangsters.
The pursuit eventually concludes in an alley
where Slater plays chicken with those chasing
him and proves successful as the truck lurches
out of the way and crashes.
The good guys, as Danny notes, can never lose.
Following these confrontations, we find Slater
and Danny at the police HQ with the young
film fan repeatedly trying to convince the
cop that he is living in a movie.
They draw upon the evidence all around them,
such as the presence of a cartoon cat, Whiskers.
In the course of this scene, the fast-talking
and frequently angry Lieutenant Dekker appoints
Danny to the position of Slater’s partner
and instructs them to investigate Vivaldi’s
gang.
They head off to a nearby Blockbuster video
store, Danny unsuccessfully attempts to find
evidence of the previous Jack Slater movies
to prove his point.
However, he notes that it must be a movie
because the staff are far too attractive to
be working in such a store and there are no
ugly women to be seen anywhere.
Slater retorts that this is because they’re
in California.
Now working on their assignment, we find Slater
and Danny cruising around a leafy neighborhood.
Danny claims he’ll know Vivaldi’s residence,
having seen it in the opening sequences of
the movie.
Eventually, he locates it and the pair head
to the door where they are greeted by Benedict
and a number of well-trained and threatening
dogs.
They are denied entry and head off.
As they walk away, Benedict overhears Danny
talking to Slater about the conversation he’d
witnessed in the opening sequences of the
movie around the pool.
Benedict is shocked to discover Danny has
this inside information about their plans
and decides to investigate.
Later that day, we find the partners heading
to Slater’s ex-wife’s house where he is
greeted by his rather striking daughter, Whitney.
We soon learn that Andy was killed in the
altercation at the start of the movie.
As Slater heads out to buy a cigar, Benedict
and his gang make their entry, with the white-suit
clad villain seizing Danny’s wallet and
the golden ticket.
Although upon his return, Slater is able to
suppress many of the gang, Benedict makes
it away in a shiny black SUV, despite the
efforts of Danny to stop him on a pink BMX.
By this point of the film, the partners have
begun to figure out that Vivaldi’s plan
to join forces is a ruse and he actually intends
to wipe out his rivals at an impending funeral.
He declares to Benedict that he wants a bloodbath.
Determined to stop this, Danny and Slater
arrive at the funeral.
Here, they are initially distracted by Slater’s
apparent friend John Practice, who Danny had
previously warned him not to trust.
Having been cuffed, Danny is able to free
himself using the key he’d fished from the
toilet back in the real world, but it is a
bullet from Whiskers that really saves the
day.
With Slater instructing Danny to operate a
nearby crane, he makes it to the top of the
building and funeral mere minutes before the
body laying on display is due to emit a poisonous
gas.
He is then able to drop it over the edge of
the building; He raises his hands with the
guns of practically every attendee trained
on him.
The clothes of the corpse catch on the hook
of the crane with.
He has gotten away from the rooftop and is
trying to free it.
In the nick of time, they both plummet into
an oily pond, seconds before the gas is released.
Here they are greeted by Whitney and drive
off in her Jeep.
Frustrated by the failure of his plan, Benedict
returns to the mansion by the sea and shoots
Vivaldi.
In the ensuing struggle, Benedict and his
butler fall through a portal into the real
world, and Slater and Danny follow them.
In the real New York City, the man soon realizes
the differences of a life in reality.
While stealing a car, he finds out he can
now feel pain, though initially saddened to
discover his life to date has been little
more than a lie.
Following a long conversation with Danny’s
mother, Irene, his spirits pick up.
Meanwhile, at a nearby restaurant, Benedict
is formulating a new plan to bring the villains
of other movies into this world in order to
kill his rivals.
Our nemesis has realized that if he is able
to kill Arnold Schwarzenegger, the actor that
plays Jack Slater, the cop will cease to exist
leaving him free to run havoc in his movie
realm.
To this end, Benedict decides to work with
The Ripper, who he dispatches to the glamorous
opening night of Jack Slater IV, tasked with
murdering its star.
Hot in pursuit, Slater is able to use his
resemblance to Arnold to locate his seat for
the show and arrives just in time to save
him from assassination.
Impressed at their likeness, Arnold offers
to find Slater work, but he declines, suggesting
the actor has bought him nothing but pain.
Soon, another rooftop confrontation ensues
with the help of Danny, Slater is able to
both electrocute the Ripper to death and also
dispatch Benedict, by shooting him in his
explosive glass eye.
The ticket stub is unfortunately destroyed
in the confrontation.
With Slater having taken a bullet to the chest
during the fight, Danny realizes the only
way to save his friend is by transporting
him back to the fictional world.
Taking the wheel of the ambulance, Danny drives
Slater to the movie theatre where they are
confronted by another of Benedict’s recruits.
Slater ingeniously suggests they find the
other half of the ticket, which Danny duly
does.
Having the ticket stub in hand and with the
help of Nick manning the reels, he is able
to reopen the portal and they head back into
the world of fiction.
Immediately, we see a doctor dismissing the
rapidly recovering Slater’s wounds as relatively
minor ones.
The movie ends with Danny slipping out of
the scene, through the wall and back to reality.
Like and Subscribe to watch more videos like
this, and don’t forget to turn on your notifications.
That really helps my channel.
Thanks for watching!